Everspace 2 Releases New Incursions Update Today
https://bleedingcool.com/games/everspace-2-releases-new-incursions-update-today/

Breaking: Lord Of The Rings | Sonic The Hedgehog | SNL UK | Law & Order: SVU | RJ Decker | The Last Starfighter #3 | Spider-Man | WWE Raw | Fortnite | Best Medicine | Absolute Batman #24 | Vampirella #6 | Will Trent | Rugrats | Smile: Any Given Smile #1
Comics ▾
Film▾
TV ▾
Games ▾
Collect▾
Wrestling
Trends
Contact
Home » Games » Everspace 2 Releases New Incursions Update Today

Posted in: Games, Indie Games, Rockfish Games, Video Games | Tagged: Everspace 2

Everspace 2 Releases New Incursions Update Today

Rockfish Games as a brand enw update out for Everspace 2, as the Incursions Update brings about photo mode, among other additions.

Published Mon, 29 Apr 2024 12:13:07 -0500 by Gavin Sheehan|Comments
Article Summary
Everspace 2's Incursions Update is live, featuring new Photo Mode and legendary gear.
Massive space battles with the Ancients enrich the game's story and world lore.
Revamped controller support and remapping cater to console players after feedback.
Game upgraded to Unreal Engine 5.3, adding cutting-edge graphics and performance features.

Indie game developer and publisher Rockfish Games released a new update for Everspace 2 this morning, as players can now get their hands on the Incursions Update right now. The shorthand to the update is that you're getting some new features added to the gameplay, several new in-game items, and improvements to how space look, feels, and functions. The biggest changes come to Photo Mode, improved controller support, new treasures, new Incursion Events to take part in, and a ton of Legendary Gear added to the game for you to find and purchase. We have more details about it for you below, as you can get the finer dev notes on their latest blog post on Steam.

Credit: Rockfish Games
Everspace 2 – Incursions Update

The Incursions update broadens the depth of Everspace 2's world and lore, adding massive space battles to the later portion of the story campaign. Actions taken by Adam Roslin and his crew have weakened the integrity of the universe and allowed Ancients to break into reality from rift space. In new Incursions activities, it's up to skilled space pilots to fend off hordes of enemies while destroying beacons allowing enemies to cross over from another dimension.

In addition to the new Incursions gameplay, Everspace 2 pilots can collect 15 new legendaries, new front, rear, and cockpit modules, and new reliquary treasure items that can be unlocked in the retooled Ancient Rift mode. Additional features such as a revamped photo mode, reworked Scout "Shadow Strike" ultimate ability, increased legendary item limit per loadout, and many community-requested changes have also been added. On Xbox and PlayStation consoles, controller button remapping has also been added in response to community request.

The Incursions update also brings Everspace 2 from Unreal Engine 4 to 5.3. This engine migration allows the ROCKFISH Games team to continue development using the latest tools while enabling toggleable features such as Lumen GI on DirectX 12, Nvidia Reflex latency reduction, Intel XeSS upscaler, AMD FSR 3.0 upscaler, and Nvidia Frame Generation for high-end PC players.

Enjoyed this? Please share on social media!

Stay up-to-date and support the site by following Bleeding Cool on Google News today!
About Gavin Sheehan
Gavin is the current Games Editor for Bleeding Cool. He has been a lifelong geek who can chat with you about comics, television, video games, and even pro wrestling. He can also teach you how to play Star Trek chess, be your Mercy on Overwatch, recommend random cool music, and goes rogue in D&D. He also enjoys hundreds of other geeky things that can't be covered in a single paragraph. Follow @TheGavinSheehan on Facebook, Twitter/X, Instagram, Bluesky, Threads, and Hive, for random pictures and musings.
Comments will load 20 seconds after page. Click here to load them now.
Popular Now
Toy Story 5 Arrives in Fortnite for An All-New New Event
Monopoly GO! Adds KPop Demon Hunters, Ghostbusters & More
New Dinosaur TTRPG Herd of Horns Officially Announced
Rocket League Reveals New Content Arriving in Season 24
Magic: The Gathering Announces Full Sleeves Secret Lair Drop
TCG Spotlight: Some Of The Best Sylveon Pokémon Cards
60 Seconds! Souper Scavenger Announced For 2026
Angry Birds Classic Returns To The App Store & It's Addictive As Ever
Popular Now
Beyblade X Reveals Final U.S. Grand Prix Tournaments
Call of Duty: Black Ops 7 Launches Nuketown 2025 Tomorrow
Cards Of Pokémon TCG: Paldea Evolved Part 48: Tinkatink Illustrations
Date Everything Releases Self Care Update For Its Anniversary
Disney Villainous Announces Two New Expansions For 2026
Everything Featured During The PC Gaming Show Tokyo Direct 2026
Felicia Day & Wil Wheaton To Start New Tabletop Series Conludo
Friendships? What Friendships?!? We Review 'Bad People'
Latest by Gavin Sheehan
Both Lord Of The Rings TTRPGs Will Get New 2027 Content
SEGA Reveals New Sonic The Hedgehog Halloween Collection
Toy Story 5 Arrives in Fortnite for An All-New New Event
Knight Rider with Greg Evigan, Not David Hasselhoff, Nearly Happened
Monopoly GO! Adds KPop Demon Hunters, Ghostbusters & More
Tomb Raider: Legacy of Atlantis Explores Egypt In Latest Doc Episode
Latest in Games
Both Lord Of The Rings TTRPGs Will Get New 2027 Content
Toy Story 5 Arrives in Fortnite for An All-New New Event
Monopoly GO! Adds KPop Demon Hunters, Ghostbusters & More
Street Fighter: Bringing the Game Moves to Life Featurette, 5 Posters
Tomb Raider: Legacy of Atlantis Explores Egypt In Latest Doc Episode
Vanna White Drops Into Words With Friends' Wheel of Fortune Collab
Bleeding Cool is owned and operated by Avatar Press, Inc. For more information, visit our contact page.
© 2021 Bleeding Cool | Contact Us | About Us | Privacy Policy
 

LINKS
