Meet the Fuel Rats, the fearless space paramedics of Elite Dangerous | PC Gamer
https://www.pcgamer.com/meet-the-fuel-rats-the-fearless-space-paramedics-of-elite-dangerous/

Skip to main content
Join the community
- Join our community
JOIN NOW
Exclusive Articles
Member-only articles
Weekly Newsletters
Gaming & entertainment news
Commenting
Join the discussion
Member Badges
Earn badges as you go
Exclusive Competitions
Members-only prize draws
Early Access
See the latest gaming news first
BECOME A MEMBER
For the quickest way to join, simply enter your email below and get access. We will send a confirmation and sign you up to our newsletter to keep you updated on all your gaming news.
Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
THE GLOBAL AUTHORITY ON PC GAMES
US Edition
SUBSCRIBE
Sign in
Games
Hardware
News & Opinion
Reviews & Advice
Guides
Videos
Newsletter
Explore
POPULAR
Best PC gear
BlizzCon
Clips
GTA 6
Quizzes
Gamescom
Games  Sim  Elite: Dangerous
Meet the Fuel Rats, the fearless space paramedics of Elite Dangerous
Features
By Wes Fenlon
Published June 22, 2022

Tales from the Hard Drive Ep2: How a selfless group of pilots set out on a 600 hour rescue to the far reaches of the galaxy.

Share
Share this article
Join the conversation
Follow us
Add us as a preferred source on Google
Newsletter
Subscribe to our newsletter
Meet The Fuel Rats of Elite Dangerous | Tales From The Hard Drive | PC Gamer
We speak to the people behind The Fuel Rats, a specialist community of Elite Dangerous Commanders who often risk their own safety to rescue those who find themselves stranded in the far corners of the galaxy, running out of fuel. Run out of fuel and you soon run out of Oxygen, and help is rarely nearby. That's when you need to call The Fuel Rats! Exploration is a huge part of the appeal of Elite Dangerous, but for one intrepid explorer, curiosity very nearly got the better of him... until The Fuel Rats embarked on a daring rescue mission that took over 600 hours of flying! CMDR. Deluvian set out from the edge of the Milky way and travelled over 140 light years away before calling for help... Would the Fuel Rats get to him in time? Find out in the latest episode of Tales from the hard drive from PC Gamer
0 seconds of 16 minutes, 13 secondsVolume 0%
 

The Rats will pluck you from the void.

The galaxy of Elite Dangerous is 100,000 light years across: a replica of the Milky Way shrunken down to fit on your PC, yet still as incomprehensibly vast as outer space. In Elite you can be a trader, an adventurer, an explorer—or the special kind of explorer who sets out to reach the very edges of the galaxy, setting the record for the furthest distance traveled from the Sol system. That kind of ambition doesn't always work out, and when it doesn't you may wind up adrift in deep space with no fuel to get you home. That's when you call the Fuel Rats.

The Fuels Rats are not an automated AI towing service: they're a flesh and blood collective of Elite Dangerous players who make it their mission to rescue those who find themselves stranded in the dark. Since 2015 they've become Elite's de facto emergency service. But one of their rescues, in 2019, demanded an operation of unprecedented complexity. Commander Deluvian had made it to the far edge of the galaxy, but one miscalculation emptied his tank. "Someone says 'why don't you call the Fuel Rats, but they would be crazy if they come and get me," Deluvian said. 

The Rats set out three days later.

TALES ON SNAPCHAT

Here's one way to watch Tales from the Hard Drive: catch the episode on Snapchat by following this link, or scanning the below QR code.

This is Tales from the Hard Drive: PC Gamer's documentary series about the kinds of stories that take on life outside the games that birthed them. Each episode is focused on a real story that has become enshrined as gaming folklore, told and retold across decades on message boards and Discord servers and skeptical Reddit threads. These tall tales represent what we love most about PC gaming: the ways truly passionate players can imprint their own personalities on our shared virtual worlds.

YOU MAY LIKE
How do you reconcile your lore-heavy, dark sci-fi MMO with mod tools that might let people get way too goofy? 'Everything's canon,' say the developers of EVE Frontier
Arc Raiders rats are cheating the matchmaking system by throwing themselves in front of friendly fire
Ray Chase, the voice of Cyclops in X-Men '97, has '1,000 freaking hours' in Slay the Spire and is running a 'smell build' in Kingdom Come: Deliverance 2: ' I wear perfumes and walk into battle with my fancy boy outfit'

Tales from the Hard Drive demanded a a world-class narrator, which is why we brought on the incomparable Lenval Brown (voice of Disco Elysium: The Final Cut) to help us tell them.

You can read more about the adventures of the Fuel Rats, and the accomplishments of other intrepid Elite Dangerous players, on PC Gamer. There's the story of how a cat sabotaged a rescue mission, as well as the journey of Commander Kabbooooom, who made it 84,341.57 light years from Sol without needing help from the Fuel Rats.

The biggest gaming news, reviews and hardware deals

Keep up to date with the most important stories and the best deals, as picked by the PC Gamer team.

Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors
By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.

In Episode 1 we told the story of Angwe, also known as the Terror of Menethil Harbor. Angwe was World of Warcraft's infamous serial killer: an unstoppable rogue who went on a months-long ganking spree that became the stuff of forum legend. 

Make sure to subscribe to PC Gamer's YouTube channel to catch the rest of Tales From the Hard Drive rolling out this summer. 

Wes Fenlon
Senior Editor

Wes has been covering games and hardware for more than 10 years, first at tech sites like The Wirecutter and Tested before joining the PC Gamer team in 2014. Wes plays a little bit of everything, but he'll always jump at the chance to cover emulation and Japanese games.




When he's not obsessively optimizing and re-optimizing a tangle of conveyor belts in Satisfactory (it's really becoming a problem), he's probably playing a 20-year-old Final Fantasy or some opaque ASCII roguelike. With a focus on writing and editing features, he seeks out personal stories and in-depth histories from the corners of PC gaming and its niche communities. 50% pizza by volume (deep dish, to be specific).

READ MORE
MMO
How do you reconcile your lore-heavy, dark sci-fi MMO with mod tools that might let people get way too goofy? 'Everything's canon,' say the developers of EVE Frontier
 
 
Third Person Shooter
Arc Raiders rats are cheating the matchmaking system by throwing themselves in front of friendly fire
 
 
Gaming Industry
Ray Chase, the voice of Cyclops in X-Men '97, has '1,000 freaking hours' in Slay the Spire and is running a 'smell build' in Kingdom Come: Deliverance 2: ' I wear perfumes and walk into battle with my fancy boy outfit'
 
 
Strategy
The challenges of developing the colony sim, from Dungeon Keeper to Dwarf Fortress and beyond
 
 
Racing
Star Wars: Galactic Racer has a lot more Slay the Spire DNA than I expected, because its ex-Burnout devs wanted to add 'real consequence' to each race
 
 
Horror
The hardware crisis has hit a new low: We're now using rats for RAM
 
 
LATEST IN SIM
Sim
This unofficial engine patch for Thief: The Dark Project adds a huge new feature that won't be in Nightdive's upcoming remaster
 
 
Sim
Dishonored's Harvey Smith named his new studio Black Pony Immersive so people would stop asking him to work on other genres: 'Specialising on what you love is not a bad path'
 
 
Sim
Dishonored director Harvey Smith thinks there's still room for big-budget immersive sims: 'When it really comes together and it has the budget behind it and the team, you end up with Deus Ex or Dishonored'
 
 
Sim
Thief designer Randy Smith Evergreen refused to work for Xbox because it would be like 'walking past some stakes with human skulls on them' and pretending 'it's probably fine in this direction'
 
 
Sim
Thief designer thinks the graphics arms race should have ended with 2010's Alan Wake: 'The fidelity curve has become outrageous'
 
 
Sim
Dwarf Fortress co-creator Tarn Adams was amazed other devs had heard of his game the first time he went to a convention: 'I didn't know that anyone knew what we were doing'
 
 
LATEST IN FEATURES
Movies & TV
The Resident Evil film should be more concerned with understanding the roots of its survival horror than adhering to strict lore accuracy
 
 
Grand Theft Auto
I have modded the most exciting thing possible into GTA 5: Hard and soft credit checks and realistic personal finance
 
 
World of Warcraft
World of Warcraft: Forever's convinced me that we lost too much to modern MMO quest design
 
 
Graphics Cards
Control Resonant is one of the best-looking games at low graphics settings I've ever seen
 
 
FPS
Wardogs is the only FPS where I actually expect to get revived
 
 
Grand Theft Auto
I have officially made Grand Theft Auto 5 good by turning it into a golf sim
 
 
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
LATEST ARTICLES
1
Over 10 years later, Gabe Newell's advice to devs still holds up
2
Evidence of canceled Grand Theft Auto 5 Liberty City and 'Agent Trevor' DLC, plus early version of GTA6's map surface online
3
An ambitious fanmade expansion for Baldur's Gate 3 is out after almost two years in development
4
Japanese devs aren't facing the same layoff crisis because their executives are paid an order of magnitude less, 'they didn’t get swept up in the live-service trend,' and their teams are smaller, says industry expert
5
'The largest theft of labor in human history:' Court docs reveal Microsoft exec predicted AI 'doom loops' could hollow out the internet

PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.

Add as a preferred source on Google
About Us
Contact Future's experts
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Advertise with us
Accessibility Statement
Careers
Do not sell or share my personal information

© Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.

LINKS
