Supercruise Assist | Elite Dangerous Wiki | Fandom
https://elite-dangerous.fandom.com/wiki/Supercruise_Assist

SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
ELITE DANGEROUS
ELITE SERIES
GUIDES
COMMUNITY
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
Settings
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Elite Dangerous Wiki
2,915
PAGES
EXPLORE
ELITE DANGEROUS
ELITE SERIES
GUIDES
COMMUNITY
in: Optional Internals, Equipment
English
Supercruise Assist
12
SAVE
EDIT
 
Supercruise Assist
Information
Ship Module Slots
	Optional Internals
Classes
1
Ratings
E
Engineering
Engineering
No

Provides additional supercruise guidance to a predetermined destination.

— In-Game Description

The Supercruise Assist is an optional internal module that partially automates Supercruise travel to a specific destination. It is equipped by default in all newly-purchased ships.[1]

Contents
1	Usage
2	Specifications
3	Purchase Locations
4	Notes
5	References
Usage

The Supercruise Assist module allows the ship's computer to regulate the approach towards a set location within the current system. To engage the module, the ship should be in supercruise and aligned with the target destination, with the throttle centred in the blue zone. If the ship's trajectory or speed are manually adjusted, including in the event of interdiction or sudden close proximity to an object, the module will disengage. This module can also be used to enter orbit around a planetary body.

— Additional In-Game Description

Activating the Supercruise Assist requires the following actions, which do not need to be performed strictly in order:

Target a destination (via the Navigation Panel, System Map, or HUD) within a system.
Align the ship with the target. Ensure that the target is not obscured..
Open the Navigation Panel, select the target, and toggle the "Supercruise Assist" (if a station or signal source is targeted) or "Supercruise Assist and Orbit" (if a star, planet, or moon is targeted) option.

Supercruise Assist will then take control, automatically maintaining the correct speed and approach to arrive safely at the target. The ship will drop into normal space outside stations and throttle down the thrusters to bring the ship to a halt, or remain in supercruise and take up orbit around planets, moons, and stars. Orbiting stars with Supercruise Assist also allows ships to scoop fuel from them with minimal risk, but this is less efficient than scooping fuel manually because the module does not bring the ship closer to the star.

Supercruise Assist also includes a "Hyperspace Dethrottle" feature that, when activated, will automatically bring the ship to a stop outside a system's main star after a hyperspace jump. This can be toggled on or off in the Flight Assistance subsection of the Systems Panel.[2] Hyperspace Dethrottle can be useful for new pilots who have not yet learned how to steer around a star's exclusion zone after a jump, or for explorers jumping into a system with a black hole or white dwarf who wish to ensure they do not immediately collide with the exclusion zone and experience a damaging emergency drop.

Be aware that Supercruise Assist is not a full autopilot system. It does not move the ship around any bodies that may move into its path as it approaches its target, and will deactivate if its path is obstructed, which can cause a collision with the body's exclusion zone. It provides no assistance whatsoever during Planetary Landings, and only orbits a body when a location on its surface is targeted. Lastly, it does not prevent or evade interdictions, and will deactivate if an interdiction occurs. The ship's pilot must be on hand to steer it around bodies and realign the supercruise course, guide it down to a planetary surface, and evade or submit to interdictions.

Specifications
Class	Rating	Mass	Integrity	Power Draw (MW)	Value (CR)
1	E	0	10	0.30	9,121
Purchase Locations
System	Station	
Expand
Date Seen
Notes
The Supercruise Assist was added with the April Update on April 23, 2019.
Originally, the Supercruise Assist did not automatically throttle down the ship after it dropped into normal space outside a station, occasionally causing fatal collisions with other ships in the vicinity or the station itself if the player was not at the controls. This was changed with the Fleet Carriers Update on June 9, 2020.
The Supercruise Assist module ignores speed requirements when dropping near stations, as long as players do not travel further than the distance requirement between screen frames. This allows for ships to drop into station orbit at speeds greater than 20 MKm/s with good timing, dropping them at the standard 9 km from the station. Occasionally, this can result in ships passing through starports or other objects during the drop and emerging on the opposite side undamaged.
References
↑ Frontier Forums: April Update - Coming 23 April 2019
↑ YouTube: April Update - Content Reveal
hide
v • d • e
   Ship Equipment   



Hardpoints
	   see Ship Weapons


Core Internals
	
Bulkheads Frame Shift Drive (SCO) Fuel Tank Life Support Power Distributor (Guardian Hybrid) Power Plant (Guardian Hybrid) Sensors Thrusters (Enhanced Performance)



Optional Internals
	
Tools and Accessories	Auto Field-Maintenance Unit Cargo Rack (Corrosion Resistant) Mk II Cargo Rack Detailed Surface Scanner Frame Shift Drive Interdictor Fuel Scoop Fuel Tank Guardian Frame Shift Drive Booster Passenger Cabin Mk II Passenger Cabin Planetary Approach Suite (Advanced) Refinery Standard Docking Computer (Advanced) Supercruise Assist
Limpet Controllers	Collector Decontamination Fuel Transfer Hatch Breaker Mining (Multi) Operations (Multi) Prospector Recon Repair Rescue (Multi) Research Universal (Multi) Xeno (Multi)
Defensive Modules	Guardian Shield Reinforcement Package Hull Reinforcement Package (Guardian, Meta Alloy) Module Reinforcement Package (Guardian) Shield Cell Bank Shield Generator (Prismatic, Bi-Weave)
Hangars	Hangar Planetary Vehicle Hangar Mk II Large Planetary Vehicle Hangar Vessel Hangar



Utilities
	
Base	Chaff Launcher Electronic Countermeasure Frame Shift Wake Scanner Heatsink Launcher Kill Warrant Scanner Manifest Scanner Point Defence Turret Pulse Wave Analyser Shield Booster
Experimental	AX Xeno Scanner Caustic Sink Launcher Experimental Weapon Stabiliser Enhanced Xeno Scanner Shutdown Field Neutraliser Thargoid Pulse Neutraliser Pulse Wave Xeno Scanner


Integrated Scanners
	Data Link Scanner Discovery Scanner Full Spectrum System Scanner Short Range Composition Scanner Wave Scanner
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Sci-fi

12 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Elite Dangerous Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis
When you visit our website, we may "share" or "sell" information about your use of our site with marketing and analytics partners, as those terms are defined by applicable law. You may opt out of this selling/sharing, and if you do, we will honor that decision and direct our partners to do the same.Privacy Policy
Manage Options

LINKS
