Google ending Steam for Chromebook support in 2026
https://9to5google.com/2025/08/07/steam-chromebook-2026/

Skip to main content
Go to the 9to5Google home page
Switch site
Toggle social menu
Toggle dark mode
Toggle search form
Forums
Exclusives
Gemini
Pixel
Nest
Android
Chrome
TV
Workspace
YouTube
Reviews
Newsletters
Videos
CHROMEOS CHROMEBOOKS
Google ending Steam for Chromebook support in 2026
Abner Li
 | Aug 7 2025 - 4:16 pm PT
13 Comments

After debuting in 2022, the Steam for Chromebook Beta will stop working in early 2026. At the time, it was a big ChromeOS effort, but there hasn’t been an update in ages.

Entering “Steam” into the ChromeOS Launcher starts the install process like before, but there’s now an intermediary message: “The Steam for Chromebook Beta program will conclude on January 1st, 2026. After this date, games installed as part of the Beta will no longer be available to play on your device. We appreciate your participation in and contribution to learnings from the beta program, which will inform the future of Chromebook gaming.”

Discover more
Track Tech Trends
Video Games
Laptops

At the time, this was part of a sizable gaming push for ChromeOS. Steam joined Android apps and cloud streaming to provide a third way to play games on Chromebooks. Later in 2022, Google announced the first Gaming Chromebooks.

Steam for Chromebooks launched in Alpha that March before reaching Beta in November with lower hardware requirements: Intel Core i3 and AMD Ryzen 3 with 8 GB of RAM. However, Core i5 or Ryzen 5 and 16 GB is recommended. It uses the Linux version of a game, with Google maintaining a list of compatible titles, which is currently at 99.

Advertisement - scroll for more content
What Is Endpoint Protection? A Comprehensive Guide
SentinelOne

When support ends at the start of next year, existing games that are already installed will be removed. With hindsight, the fact that Steam for Chromebook never entered stable was a pretty good indicator of the effort’s standing.

Discover more
Compare Mobile Plans
Try Private Search
Gaming

Google alludes to there being a future for Chromebook gaming. This comes as the technical underpinnings of ChromeOS eventually get migrated to Android. In that regard, there will always be Android apps from the Play Store for local games, as well as streaming services. 

More on Chromebook:
Google specifies how it will be the ‘ChromeOS experience on top of Android’
Google confirms ChromeOS and Android are being merged into ‘a single platform’
Chromebooks are better than ever, but is that enough for Google?

Thanks Noah

FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.

You’re reading 9to5Google — experts who break news about Google and its surrounding ecosystem, day after day. Be sure to check out our homepage for all the latest news, and follow 9to5Google on Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn to stay in the loop. Don’t know where to start? Check out our exclusive stories, reviews, how-tos, and subscribe to our YouTube channel
Featured
from
9to5Google
slide 1 to 2 of 4
Googlebook OS hands-on: It’s Android, stupid
Abner Li
Sep 21 2026
Googlebook hands-on: What makes a laptop, a laptop? [Video]
Damien Wilde
Sep 21 2026
Google fully details Googlebooks: $899+, October launch, & more
Abner Li
Sep 21 2026
The camera is my favorite part of smart glasses, but it just feels wrong now
Ben Schoon
Sep 20 2026
Discover more
Track Business News
Android
gaming
Podcast
Pixelated
•
58min
How Dynamic Is This Duo?
Play Episode
The Sideload: A 9to5Google Podcast
•
91min
Duo's and Don'ts with Stephen Radochia
Pixelated
•
46min
Who Watches the Pixel Watch?
Pixelated
•
48min
All Wallets are Designed Badly
The Sideload: A 9to5Google Podcast
•
77min
A Genderless Pixel Experience with Damien Wilde
Pixelated
•
44min
Googlebook Eve
Powered by

Check out 9to5Google on YouTube for more news:

Comments
EXPAND
COMMENTS
Guides
ChromeOS
Chromebooks
Author
Abner Li  technacity

Editor-in-chief. Interested in the minutiae of Google and Alphabet. Tips/talk: abner@9to5g.com

Subscribe to notifications

LINKS
